# National Museum of the American Indian: Introduction  

The National Museum of the American Indian (NMAI) Archive Center actively acquires and serves as a repository for the records of contemporary Native American artists, writers, activists, and organizations. In addition, the Archive Center holds the records of the NMAI's predecessor institution, the Museum of the American Indian (MAI), Heye Foundation which originated from the private collection of George Gustav Heye.

The Archive Center supports the mission of the museum by collecting, organizing, preserving, and making available papers, records, photographs, recordings, and ephemera that reflect the historical and contemporary lives of Native peoples throughout the Western Hemisphere. The archival collections are particularly focused on Native art, culture, knowledge, politics, events, and social and political movements. They also complement the NMAI's object collections and are used for scholarly research, exhibitions, journalism, documentary productions, and other research, educational, and Native community activities. The Archive Center houses approximately 1,500 linear feet of manuscripts and thousands of photographic objects.

The Archive Center also provides reference services to Native American community members, scholars, researchers, journalists, museum staff, and the general public.

The NMAI Archives is located in a building called the [Cultural Resource Center (CRC)](https://americanindian.si.edu/explore/collections/crc) in Suitland, MD. In addition to housing the archives, the CRC also serves as the permanent off-site storage facility for all of NMAI's collections. It's no surprise that the DC and the New York City NMAI museum locations display only a small fraction of NMAI's entire collection at any given point. Therefore, the majority of your in-person research (if not all of it), will likely take place at the CRC.

Compared to other federal repository buildings, both within and beyond the Washington DC area, the CRC stands out for not only its unique shape and design, but also by the fact that every element of the building was thoughtfully and carefully planned out by tribal communities in collaboration with museum staff. Upon entering the building, you step into a circular rotunda; it has hard wood floors, comfy chairs, and is filled with natural light. A front desk check-in with a security guard is required, but museum staff will always come to greet you in the rotunda and can help with the check-in process if needed. [NOTE: Add in a note here about the ceremonial room]

The archives, library, and reading room are located on the bottom floor, and the welcoming atmosphere can be felt throughout the building. In comparison to other reading rooms, the NMAI archives reading room is small in size and set a little bit off to the side. A bookshelf with reference materials, Smithsonian publications, and academic works sits in the hallway, open and available for you to use. There is a circular table in the corner that feels very inviting, and 2 workstations should you need more space. Best of all, there are large windows on one wall that allow for natural light – a rarity and coveted feature in archival reading rooms. Over the course of our 4-month residence at NMAI, we discovered that even this small amount of natural light had an incredibly positive impact on the long days of sifting through archival manuscripts, photos, and materials. While the space is cozy, everything fits; it is clear that both the reading room space – and the building as a whole for that matter – was designed to cultivate and sustain reparative and collaborative relationships with both communities and their collections.

## Getting in Touch
While it is always a good idea to do some preliminary online research, we also strongly recommend getting in touch with reference staff about your research subject. They are familiar with the idiosyncrasies of their repository, as well as relevant collections that may not come up in your search.

All questions and inquiries should be directed to [nmaiarchives@si.edu](mailto:nmaiarchives@si.edu). If you are specifically interested in photographs, those questions can be directed to the photo archives at [nmaiphotos@si.edu](mailto:nmaiphotos@si.edu)

### Tips to Keep in Mind: 
While this email account is usually managed by a reference archivist, it is also possible that other staff members will be checking and responding as well.
